# HAR Course Project
This Project uses the data generated by Human Activity Research (HAR) to build appropriate machine learning system that can predict the type of activities. The detailed description about the HAR and the data can be found at http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har.

## File description
There are critical files in the repo that describe the analysis and include the executable code.

Files              | Decription
-------------------|------------
Analysis.R         | The main code that runs the analysis.
Course Project.md  | The R markdown file generates the final report.
Course Project.html| The final report.
M_rf.RData         | R data file include the random forest model
M_gbm.RData        | R data file include the stochastic gradient boosting model
M_svmL.RData       | R data file include the svm linear kernal model
M_svmR.RData       | R data file include the svm radial kernal model

## How to run the analysis and cautions

Before runing the analysis, please make sure the orignal data is in the current work directory of R. Analysis.R can be source into R directly and then be run. 
- The actual data training part in Analysis.R is commentted because the training cost significant amount of time. Please uncomment them if you want to re-training the data. 
- The detection of outliers part in Analysis.R is also commented. Please uncomment them if you want to check the outliers. 
- The random seed set before data partition directly affects the PCA procedure, because the PCA is based on training set only. If the seed is changed, the PCA procedure also changes. You may get wrong results if you didn't re-train the model or didn't apply the previous PCA procedure for the trained model.
- The result is not saved into files automatically in Analysis.R. Please save those model data youself.
